---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Week 3
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Shaheem Azmal M MD <shaheem.azmal@gmail.com@gmail.com>
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Siemens AG
-->

Welcome to meeting minutes page for GSoC 2024 at FOSSology 13-06-2024.


## Attendees:

  - [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)

  - [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)

  - [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)

  - [Ayush Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)

  - [Abdelrahman jamal](https://github.com/Hero2323)

  - [Aaditya Singh](https://github.com/Aaditya-Singh78)

  - [Akash Sah](https://github.com/Akashsah2003)

  - [Divij Sharma](https://github.com/dvjsharma)

  - [Rajul Jha](https://github.com/rajuljha)

  - [Avinal Kumar](https://github.com/avinal)

  - [Valens Niyonsenga](https://github.com/valens200)

  - [Abhishek Kumar](https://github.com/abhi-kumar17871)

## Missed:

  - [Katharina Ettinger](https://github.com/EttingerK)

  - [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)

  - [Soham Banerjee](https://github.com/soham4abc)

  - [Shreya Singh](https://github.com/SinghShreya05)

  - [Anupam Ghosh](https://github.com/ag4ums)

  - [Sahil Jha](mailto:sjha200000@gmail.com)

  - [Vasudev Maduri](https://github.com/vasudevmaduri)

  - [Shreya Gautam](https://github.com/ShreyaGautamm)

## General

- [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx): General updates regarding project.

## Updates from contributors

- [Abdelrahman jamal](https://github.com/Hero2323)

  - Tested different model using Semantic Search which tries to find similar match.

  - Test semantic transformer, and work on basic license identifier.

- [Shreya Gautam](https://github.com/ShreyaGautamm)

  - Absent.

- [Aaditya Singh](https://github.com/Aaditya-Singh78)

  - Based on my last discussion with mentors, rewriting the scheduler code from C language to go. Raised a PR for the same.

  - Trying to implement queue. also working on CLI code

- [Abhishek Kumar](https://github.com/abhi-kumar17871)

  - Worked on generation of SPDX 3.0 JSON format. Looking in to validation of generated reports. will start work on RDF report soon.

- [Akash Sah](https://github.com/Akashsah2003)

  - As per my discussion with mentors im using the JSON format to convert the license expression and store it to database(successful).

  - Worked on creating UI for the same. currently looking into adding comments acknowledgements and text for license expression.

- [Divij Sharma](https://github.com/dvjsharma)

  - Finished implementation of OAUTH via API. Currently looking into API upgrade from V1 to V2.

- [Rajul Jha](https://github.com/rajuljha)

  - Working on adding the line number support for repo scan. will be working on nomos and ojo part.

- [Valens Niyonsenga](https://github.com/valens200)

  - I have added the unit test cases for API's like License, Group and upload. I have opened the pull request for the same.
