---
title: Weekly Updates (Community Bonding)
author: Aaditya Singh
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Aaditya Singh <singh.aaditya889@gmail.com>
-->

# Meeting 7

*(June 06, 2024)*

## Attendees

- [Katharina Ettinger](https://github.com/EttingerK)
- [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)
- [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)
- [Ayush Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)
- [Abdelrahman Jamal](https://github.com/Hero2323)
- [Aaditya Singh](https://github.com/Aaditya-Singh78)
- [Akash Sah](https://github.com/Akashsah2003)
- [Divij Sharma](https://github.com/dvjsharma)
- [Rajul Jha](https://github.com/rajuljha)
- [Avinal Kumar](https://github.com/avinal)
- [Vasudev Maduri](https://github.com/vasudevmaduri)
- [Shreya Gautam](https://github.com/ShreyaGautamm)

## Missed

- [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)
- [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)
- [Soham Banerjee](https://github.com/soham4abc)
- [Shreya Singh](https://github.com/SinghShreya05)
- [Abhishek Kumar](https://github.com/abhi-kumar17871)
- [Valens Niyonsenga](https://github.com/valens200)
- [Anupam Ghosh](https://github.com/ag4ums)
- [Sahil Jha](mailto:sjha200000@gmail.com)

## General Discussion

**Mentors:**

- [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd): Provided general updates about the project.
- [Avinal Kumar](https://github.com/avinal): Suggested using a tool like [LanguageTool](https://languagetool.org) for creating GSoC documentation.

**Contributors**:

- [Abdelrahman Jamal](https://github.com/Hero2323): Demonstrated a short demo on current work involving parsing comment text of a file from FOSSology, prompting it to multiple LLM's for license name recognition. Mentioned the need to clean up and reorder the data.

- [Shreya Gautam](https://github.com/ShreyaGautamm): Presented a PPT on the end-to-end flow and code of the Safaa project, currently working on scripts to extract data from FOSSology.

- [Aaditya Singh](https://github.com/Aaditya-Singh78): Discussed rewriting the scheduler code from C to Go based on last meeting with mentors, raised a PR for the same. Exploring different approaches to complete this task.

- [Abhishek Kumar](https://github.com/abhi-kumar17871): Was absent.

- [Akash Sah](https://github.com/Akashsah2003): Discussed with mentors about using JSON format to convert the license expression and store it in a database, currently working on creating a UI for the same.

- [Divij Sharma](https://github.com/dvjsharma): Completed implementation of OAuth via API; currently looking into upgrading API from V1 to V2.

- [Rajul Jha](https://github.com/rajuljha): Discussed pulling line numbers of findings and integration challenges, was able to fetch keyword information but faced issues with copyright.

- [Valens Niyonsenga](https://github.com/valens200): Was absent.
