---
title: Community bonding
author: Abhishek Kumar
tags: [gsoc24, spdx30]
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Abhishek Kumar <akumar17871@gmail.com>
-->

## Meeting 1

*(May 7, 2024)*

### Discussion:
This was the first meeting with mentors and other fellow contributors. In this meeting, mentors and contributors introduced themselves. We agreed on the time and platform for general weekly meetings.

## Meeting 2

*(May 9, 2024)*

### Discussion:
* In this meeting, mentors talked about what we can do in community bonding period and emphasized the importance of communication in open source community.
* Q&A session was held to address the general issues.


## Week 1 Activities

*(May 9, 2024 - May 15, 2024)*

* Revised the basics of PHP and Template Engine- TWIG and other skills required for the project.
* Gone through the documentation and codebase to get clear idea how SPDX v2.3 was implemented and what are the changes that are needed to be related to the project.


## Meeting 3

*(May 16, 2024)*

### Discussion:
* Contributors provided updates on their progress.
* Mentors checked if everyone was able to set up their local development environment.


## Week 2 Activities

*(May 16, 2024 - May 22, 2024)*

* I had some issues while setting up the local environment as I was working on ARM architecture machine having Ubuntu 22.04 installed on my virtual machine.
* So, I rectified the issue by commenting out the installation of python dependencies in [fo-postinstall.in](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/blob/6e6b00c2ded6a1db7647d0da9e97c78ed9ffddf8/install/fo-postinstall.in#L261-L263) file, as it was creating conflicts with other installed dependencies.


## Meeting 4

*(May 23, 2024)*

### Discussion:
* Contributors shared their updates.
* Mentors urged contributors to address some of the issues to enhance their understanding of the project.
* Timing for the specific-project weekly meetings were finalized.