---
title: Community bonding
author: Shreya Gautam
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Shreya Gautam <gautamm.shreya@gmail.com>
-->
# **Meeting Summary for GSoC Community Bonding Period**

# Introduction Meeting
*(May 7,2024)*

This was the inaugural meeting of the community bonding period for GSoC 2024.
* A general introduction of mentors and contributors took place.
* Time and platform for the weekly general meeting were agreed upon.

# Meeting 1
*(May 9,2024)*

The first general meeting took place on this day.
* Mentors emphasized the importance of communication in open source projects.
* They encouraged the practice of regular updates

### Engagements

* Explored Safaa's codebase to grasp its functionality, provided updates, and deliberated on the pipeline procedures.
* Addressed crucial pipeline requirements essential for Safaa's automation efforts.

# Meeting 2
*(May 16, 2024)*

Contributors provided updates and offered a brief overview of their ongoing tasks. Mentors inquired about challenges encountered during the setup of Fossology and their respective environments.

### Engagements

* Evaluated the suitability of Safaa's dataset with a focus on regex preprocessing, proposing Nirjas as an alternative.
* Due to challenges faced while setting up Linux on my system, I transitioned to configuring Ubuntu within VirtualBox for Fossology.

# Meeting 3
*(May 23, 2024)*

In the report:

Contributors discussed their progress, with mentors emphasizing the importance of making incremental contributions to deepen project understanding.  Final arrangements for project-specific weekly meetings were also settled.

### Engagements

* Discussed the future of Safaa as an ML project for offline deployment.
* Explored potential changes, including fine-tuning the model and identifying edge cases where improvements are needed.
* Assigned to explore the MLOps field for relevance to the project.
* Discussed the iterative generation of training scripts for binaries and the push of model binaries.
* There was a discussion on establishing a shadow environment, conducting mirrored testing on output data, and implementing CI/CD pipelining.


**This report summarizes my activities and interactions during the GSoC community bonding period.**
