---
title: Community bonding
author: Divij Sharma
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyright Text: 2024 Divij Sharma <divijs75@gmail.com>
-->

# Community Bonding

## Introduction meeting

*(May 7,2024)*

This was the first meeting of the community bonding period for GSoC '24. Mentors and contributors introduced themselves, and the general meeting time and platform were decided.

## Meeting 1

*(May 9,2024)*

This was the first general meeting after the introduction meeting. Mentors discussed the importance of communication and the need for regular updates. The contributors were free to ask any questions they had.

## During community bonding week 1

*(May 9,2024- May 15,2024)*

### Activities

* I created an unofficial communication group with fellow contributors to get to know each other better.
* I discussed the project and the tasks that need to be completed during the coding period with the mentors.
* I clarified some of my doubts regarding the project timeline.

### Work done

* I was already familiar with the code-base because of my previous contributions to FOSSology. I started working on upgrading the REST APIs to version 2.
* I fixed some minor bugs in the following of my uplink PRs related to the upgradation:
    - [feat(api): Upgrade User & Group APIs to Version 2 ](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2711)
    - [feat(api): Upgrade Folder, License & Obligation APIs to Version 2](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2712)

## Meeting 2

*(May 16,2024)*

We discussed the progress made during the first week of community bonding. Mentors asked if contributors were able to set up their development environments and if they faced any issues. Everyone gave a brief overview of the tasks they were working on.

## During community bonding week 2

*(May 16,2024- May 22,2024)*

### Activities

* I had calls with fellow contributors to help them set up their development environments.
* I had a discussion with my colleague [Valens](https://github.com/valens200) about how we shall manage our tasks.

### Work done

* I continued working on upgrading the REST APIs to version 2.

* I finalized the work on a new endpoint to retrieve user copyright findings and also upgraded Jobs and Report APIs to version 2.
    - [feat(api): New endpoint to retrieve user copyright findings ](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2717)
    - [feat(api): Upgrade Jobs and Report APIs to Version 2 ](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2736)


## Meeting 3

*(May 23,2024)*

We discussed the progress made during the second week of the community bonding period. Mentors asked if contributors faced any issues while installing the project and encouraged us to make small contributions. We also decided on the time for project-specific weekly meetings.

## During community bonding week 3

*(May 23,2024- May 29,2024)*

### Activities

* I helped few of my colleagues in setting up their development environments.

### Work done

* I continued working on upgrading the REST APIs to version 2.

* I upgraded the Search, Copyright & Admin APIs to Version 2.
    - [feat(api): Upgrade Search, Copyright & Admin APIs to Version 2 ](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2744)

## Meeting 4

*(May 30,2024)*

We discussed the progress made during the third week of the community bonding period. Mentors gave general updates followed by weekly updates by contributors. We had a session on how are we supposed to present and maintain our work during the coding period through the documentation.
   