---
title: Week 9
author: Omar AbdelSamea
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Omar AbdelSamea <omarmohamed168@gmail.com>
-->

# Coding Week 9

## Meeting 0
### Organizer
- Gaurav Mishra

### Attendees
- Anupam Ghosh
- Vasudev
- Ayush Bharadwaj
- Shreya Singh
- Kaushlendra Pratap Singh
- Omar AbdelSamea

### Outcomes
- Presented agent configuration migrated to etcd and working inside the cluster.
- made a small demo showing applying agent deployment dynamically and the list of available agents in UI is changing accordingly.
- Discussed agent deployment deletion method by creating a shell script that takes the agent name then deletes the deployment, removing the configuration from etcd and reload scheduler configuration.

## Available agents in UI
in [agent_disable](https://github.com/OmarAbdelSamea/fossology/blob/OmarAbdelSamea/GSoC/Microservices/src/lib/php/common-plugin.php#L89) function in common-plugin the list of available is hosts is requested from etcd and if the agent isn't present in this list it'll be disabled.

## Migrating configuration to etcd
- Finalized migrating agent configuration and tested inside the cluster.
- Added rest of fossology.conf to etcd
- started working on db.conf to etcd

## End of the week results
- modified UI to show only available agents during upload.
- created fo_delete.sh to handle deployment deletion and scheduler config reload. 
- finalized migrating fossology.conf and \<agent_name\>.conf to etcd and tested inside the cluster.
- started working on db conf to etcd.

