---
title: Community Bonding
author: Tiyasa Kundu
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Tiyasa Kundu <tiyasakundu20@gmail.com>
-->

# Community Bonding Meetings and Activities

## Community Meeting 1 (Introductory)

*(May 12, 2025)*

### Attendees

Complete FOSSology Community including 
- Org admins
- Mentors of all the projects
- Contributors for GSoC 2025

### Discussion

- Held the first GSoC 2025 community bonding meeting.
- Org admins, mentors and Contributors introduced themselves and shared their backgrounds.
- Participants talked about their previous open source experience.
- The FOSSology team provided an overview of the projects, goals, and community workflows.
- Discussion included expectations for the GSoC period, including communication and contribution practices.
- Decided to use Slack as the primary communication platform.
- Concluded with a Q&A session to address questions and clarify doubts.

## FOSSology UI/UX Redesign Project Sync Meeting 1 

*(May 26, 2025)*

### Attendees 

- [Tiyasa Kundu](https://github.com/tiyasakundu)
- [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)
- [Katharina Ettinger](https://github.com/EttingerK)
- [Devanshi Sachan](https://github.com/devxnshi)

### Discussion

- We discussed the migration plans, including upgrading React (v17 to v19), switching from CRA to Vite, and moving from npm to pnpm.
- I shared my progress on setting up both the repositories- the legacy [fossology](https://github.com/fossology/fossology) repo with backend an older UI, and the current [FOSSologyUI](https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI) repo with React UI codebase, and used them to identify the missing pages.
-  Few issues faced by me were brought up and clarified during the meeting.
- Mentors advised focussing on resolving open issues in the FOSSologyUI repository as an initial priority.

## Community Meeting 2 (Updates)

*(May 29, 2025)*

### Attendees

Complete FOSSology Community including 
- Org admins
- Mentors of all the projects
- Contributors for GSoC 2025

### Discussion

- This was our first community sync-up after the introductory meeting with all the mentors and contributors.
- We finalized a weekly meeting schedule that worked for all.
- Contributors shared their early progress, initial observations, and discussed how ther prefer to work.
- Mentors highlighted the value of clear, regular communication and staying active in the community.
- EXpectations around collabroation, support, and handling open issues or PRs were discussed.
- Guidelines for writing documentation and progress reports were also shared.
- Everyone confirmed that they had successfully set up their environments and were able to begin contributing major issues. 
- This marked the end of the Community Bonding Period.

## Activities Done During Community Bondong Period

- Set up the [FOSSologyUI](https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI) and [fossology](https://github.com/fossology/fossology) repositories locally.
- Explored and understood the existing React UI codebase.
- Compared the React UI with the older UI to identify the missing pages and features.
- Reviewed the existing React components and structure.
- Researched the required migrations:
  - React v17 to v19
  - CRA (Create React App) to Vite
  - npm to pnpm
- Studied the migration steps and how to implement them effectively.
- Brushed up core React concepts such as props, hooks, states, components and JSX.
- Gained a deeper understanding of FOSSology's purpose, workflow, licensing tools, and technical architecture.
