---
title: Week 1
author: Rajul Jha
tags: [gsoc25, Atarashi]
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Rajul Jha <rajuljha49@gmail.com>
-->

# Week 1

*(June 2, 2025 - June 9, 2025)*

## Meeting 1

*(June 4, 2025)*

## Attendees

* [Rajul Jha](https://github.com/rajuljha)
* [Kaushlendra](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)
* [Ayush](https://github.com/hastagAB)
* [Sushant](https://github.com/its-sushant)

## Discussions

* Shared updates on implementing a **keyword-based prefiltering mechanism** similar to the Nomos scanner.
* The goal of the approach is to reduce the candidate license set before passing it to the Atarashi similarity-based agents.
* Discussed the limitations of keyword-based models and explored the need to move toward **ML-based pre-filtering**.
* Talked about how this new KeywordAgent integrates with Atarashi’s architecture and potential enhancements going forward.

## Updates

* Implemented a new `KeywordAgent` which performs keyword-based filtering before running Atarashi's similarity-based scanners.
* Created a **keyword set** that likely appears in licenses to act as early indicators.
* Used **GPT-4o** to help generate a broad list of licenses and associated keyword groups.
* Integrated the agent to mark a license candidate when **more than 75% of keywords** are found in a file’s content.
* Forwarded positively matched files to Atarashi’s agents like:
  * `TfIdfAgent`
  * `DamerauLevenshteinDistance`
  * `WordFrequencySimilarity`
  * `NgramSimilarity`

## Problems Identified

* The keyword list is still **static** — it must be updated manually as new licenses appear.
* Since this is rule-based, it cannot generalize well to unseen licenses or variations in text.
* Identified this phase as **exploratory**; will now begin transitioning toward an **ML-based prefiltering model** for robustness and better generalization.

## Planning for next week

* Start prototyping an ML-based model for prefiltering using the Minerva dataset.
* Setup the Minerva Dataset locally, run the augmentation steps and create the database from scratch.
