---
title: Community Bonding
author: Krishna Mahato
author_url: https://github.com/krishna9304
last_updated: 4th July, 2022
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/71918441?v=4
tags: [gsoc22, react, community bonding]
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Krishna Mahato <krishhtrishh9304@gmail.com>
-->

## Weekly Meeting 1 _(June 2nd, 2022)_

GSOC 2022 first weekly update meeting during community bonding period.

<!-- truncate -->

### Discussions

- Different topics were discussed related to the projects.
- Separate project discussion with mentors were done.
- Different meeting timings for separate project discussions were decided.
- Timing for the reactUI project updates is decided to be on **Tuesday, 8:00pm to 9:00pm IST**.
- Docusaurus tool was explained by the mentors for documenting the weekly updates for fossology.

### Contributions so far

- [**#209** Removal of credentials for the REST API](https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI/pull/209)
- [**#196** Disabled deletion for default users](https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI/pull/196)

### Conclusion and Further Plans

- During the remaining time of community bonding I will be learning more about php development so that the learning curve can be reduced later when I'll start the development of the REST APIs later in the coding period.

- There are small fixes that needs to be done on the reactUI project to make the dev environment clean. SO I'll be putting some PRs related to that soon.

---

<!-- Ui Meeting 1 -->

## UI Meeting 1 _(June 7th, 2022)_

GSOC 2022 first UI update meeting during community bonding period.

<!-- truncate -->

### Discussions

- Refactored few components where I found styling issues.
- Learning more about the codebase, routing and layouts.
- Proposed an enhancement regarding the use of async-await wherever possible.
- Learning more about testing in javascript.

### Contributions

- [**#215** update(ui): Design related fixes (Navbar and browse page)](https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI/pull/215)
- [**#187** fix (components/widgets/input): Warning while loading delete user page](https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI/pull/187)

### Conclusion and Further Plans

- I will be creating an excel sheet to list down all the UI related requirements along with the asignees and the status for each tasks so that each task can be tracked regularly by mentors.

---

## Weekly Meeting 2 _(June 9th, 2022)_

GSOC 2022 second weekly update meeting during community bonding period.

<!-- truncate -->

### Discussions

- Updates were discussed from each project.
- It was decided that **Anupam Sir** will take a session on creating a REST API for the UI Team.
- I mentioned that the creation of the excel sheet for the UI Task Updates is completed.
  Here is the [Link](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1w37AlnCd8ld8ZWC9RocC9E0Foif9M0WWGT_fichsPTs/edit?usp=sharing).

### Conclusion and Further Plans

- I will move on to creating the admin pages.
  - Add User
  - Edit User Account
