---
title: Week 4.3
author: Sarita
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Sarita Singh <saritasingh.0425@gmail.com>
-->

## Coding Week 4 Meeting 3
`Date:2021-07-02`

### Attendees 

- [Gaurav Mishra ](https://github.com/GMishx)
- [Avinal Kumar ](https://github.com/avinal)
- [Sarita Singh ](https://github.com/itssingh)

###  Week 4.2 Progress

- Created `scancode_copyright` and `scancode_author` table in the FOSSology database.
- Copyright and author information coming from scancode scan result is inserted in these newly created tables.
- Improved license data insertion in the `license_file` and `highlight` tables by inserting only unique entries based upon `rf_fk`, `agent_fk`, and `pfile_fk`. It solved UI glitch in license relevant text highlighting for scancode.
- Latest [commit](https://github.com/itssingh/fossology/commit/c823ecf7a5d59fbfe243281c41598ea161e04435) having code to create tables.


### Discussions 

- Using `S` instead of `L` for ScanCode type field in the highlight table where `S` will be match property of the highlight class in HighlightDao.php.
  - Added a new type `S` in the `HighlightDao.php` also changed type from `signature` to `match` as like monk agent ScanCode matches text.
  - Gaurav explained about identical displayed on the UI by monk scanner as, It highlight those text which are identical with the license text in the license_ref table. Whereas license relevant text means the highlighted text has been matched with license text or rules written for the license. 
  - So license relevant text is suitable for the ScanCode highlight.
  - Also Gaurav suggested to reuse the resources already present and no need to add a new type for scancode highlight, nomos type could be reused.

- Sarita(Me) shows newly created tables for scancode_copyright and scancode_author. Gaurav approved changes.
- Added a function in the scancode database to insert no license in the license_file table for a code zip have no license.

  ```cpp
    bool ScancodeDatabaseHandler::insertNoResultInDatabase(int agentId, long pFileId ){
      return saveLicenseMatch(agentId, pFileId, 320, NULL);
    }
  ```

- Gaurav clarified that `320` is not constant licenseId for no-license. So instead leave licenseId null. 
- There is still a discussion needed (with other mentors) to decide is no license case is needed to take care for ScanCode or not.

### Conclusion and Further Plans 

- Start implementing UI to make scancode a parameterized agent.
- Discuss about `no license/copyright/author` case for scancode.
