---
title: Week 4
author: Sarita
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Sarita Singh <saritasingh.0425@gmail.com>
-->

## Coding Week 4 Meeting 1
`Date:2021-06-29`

### Attendees 
 
- [Gaurav Mishra ](https://github.com/GMishx)
- [Michael C. Jaeger](https://github.com/mcjaeger)
- [Avinal Kumar ](https://github.com/avinal)
- [Sarita Singh ](https://github.com/itssingh)


 ### Week 3 Progress

- Populated ScanCode wrapper to include copyright and author information.
- Currently using FOSSology copyright and author database tables to insert these information.
- FOSSology Scheduler is calling ScanCode for copyright and author along with licenses. 

### Discussions 

- Asked how to copyright agent is generating hash for copyright and author tables?
    - Hash is md5(content). 
- What is clearing table in copyright agent database [here](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/blob/master/src/copyright/agent/database.cc#L248-L308) ?
    - This code block creates `copyright_decision` table.
    - This table is used to store user's decision.
    - Similarly there are `license_decision` table which stores `user's clearing decision` for licenses.
- Gaurav explained how copyright agent/user finding works.
    - Agent findings contain what scanners has found, if a user makes changes in the agents finding that changes will be recorded into `copyright_event` table.
    - For the same `pfile` that agent will give edited result.
    - User finding table records `user_decision` during clearing in the `UI` and that content is inserted into `copyright_decision` table in the database.
    - These clearing results are helpful during creating report.
    - Scancode will also include `reporting`.
- Avinal asked question about how to `reuse` an upload for different agent without reloading?
    - Gaurav explained following:
    - Under Jobs go to Schedule agents, there select an upload to analyse and the agent who will do analysis.
- Gaurav suggested a [FOSSology Using: End-to-end workflow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TZqU5ZALI7U) video on YouTube.

### Conclusion and Further Plans

- Creating tables for scancode copyright and author.
- Watch end-to-end fossology workflow video and understand fossology UI and working.

## Coding Week 4 Meeting 2
`Date:2021-07-02`

### Attendees 

- [Gaurav Mishra ](https://github.com/GMishx)
- [Avinal Kumar ](https://github.com/avinal)
- [Sarita Singh ](https://github.com/itssingh)


### Discussions 

- Using `S` instead of `L` for ScanCode type field in the highlight table where `S` will be match property of the highlight class in HighlightDao.php.
  - Added a new type `S` in the `HighlightDao.php` also changed type from `signature` to `match` as like monk agent ScanCode matches text.
  - Gaurav explained about identical displayed on the UI by monk scanner as, It highlight those text which are identical with the license text in the license_ref table. Whereas license relevant text means the highlighted text has been matched with license text or rules written for the license. 
  - So license relevant text is suitable for the ScanCode highlight.
  - Also Gaurav suggested to reuse the resources already present and no need to add a new type for scancode highlight, nomos type could be reused.

- Sarita(Me) shows newly created tables for scancode_copyright and scancode_author. Gaurav approved changes.
- Added a function in the scancode database to insert no license in the license_file table for a code zip have no license.

  ```cpp
    bool ScancodeDatabaseHandler::insertNoResultInDatabase(int agentId, long pFileId ){
      return saveLicenseMatch(agentId, pFileId, 320, NULL);
    }
  ```

- Gaurav clarified that `320` is not constant licenseId for no-license. So instead leave licenseId null. 
- There is still a discussion needed (with other mentors) to decide is no license case is needed to take care for ScanCode or not.

### Conclusion and Further Plans 

- Start implementing UI to make scancode a parameterized agent.
- Discuss about `no license/copyright/author` case for scancode.
