---
title: Week 3
author: Abdulsobur Oyewale
tags: [gsoc25, Data Pipeline for Safaa]
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Abdulsobur Oyewale <oyewaleabdulsobur@gmail.com>
-->

# WEEK 3
*(June 18, 2025)*

## Attendees:
- [Ayush Kumar Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)
- [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)

### Engagements
* This week I began with the second task on the list, which is the creation of a script to preprocess copyright content from the fossology server.
* I was informed last week of the available pre-written script available on the Safaa codebase which I can utilize to make this task faster to complete.
* I then began by starting to write out this pre-written script, reading the code, understanding it, then before modifying it to suit our intent.
* After completing the above task, I modified the script to match our int. With this, I was able to preprocess the data we retrieved from the fossology server running in the local host.


## Meeting Discussion:
* I discuss with the mentors about the progress of the week and how the project s going, including if there was any obstacle.
* We discussed the current progress which is the preprocessing of data fetched from the fossology localhost server using available pre-written script.
* I also gave them a demo to show them how it works and the expected output from the script.
* I was told the task needs to be modified to so that it can be triggered using GitHub actions, and not manually via coding script.


## Subsequent Steps
* Given that we already have a working preprocessing, I was tasked to modify this to be triggered with GitHub Actions.
* I will be continuing with the task above for the next week task achievements.