---
title: Week 8
author: Abdulsobur Oyewale
tags: [gsoc25, Data Pipeline for Safaa]
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Abdulsobur Oyewale <oyewaleabdulsobur@gmail.com>
-->

# WEEK 8
*(July 23, 2025)*

## Attendees:
- [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)
- [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)

### Engagements
* This week I started by continuing with the corrections from the reviews and comments I got from the current scripts we have.
* Below are the adjustment I made;
  - Updated the pipeline.yml to accept environmental variables for our DB.
  - Used workflow secrets to handle injection of .env files into the pipeline.
  - Renamed the pipeline flow `safaa-model-retraining` to showcase its functionalities
  - Removed artifacts upload functionality since we aren't passing the artifacts among workflows

* Also, this week I created a new branch named `testing` on my own end to test out changes we have made so far.
  - The first testing required manual testing of the pipeline through GitHub actions manual triggering
  - The second testing was automated by adding the `on: push: branches: [testing]` for `testing` branch, thereby triggering on github action anytime the branch gets an update

    * Lastly since we are trying to find a better ways to install our dependencies, I introduced the use of shell script in our pipeline instead of a `requirements.txt` file


## Meeting Discussion:
* This week, i discussed with my mentors on what i have done so far regarding the corrections on comments. I was told to made some little improvements like;
  - Direct installation of dependencies in the pipeline script.
  - Removal of requirements.txt or shell scripts installations.
  - Splitting of each processing into different commands using argument flags, thereby enabling us to understand steps in process.
  - I was also tasked to introduce some global variable to some repetitive paths.

* And lastly i was also told to introduce a pickle file into the system using the available data in the current safaa repository.

## Subsequent Steps
* I will proceed to making adjust and integrating new task while continuing on the work towards achieving the pipeline goals.