---
title: Week 2
author: Abdulsobur Oyewale
tags: [gsoc25, Safaa Data for Pipeline]
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Abdulsobur Oyewale <oyewaleabdulsobur@gmail.com>
-->

# WEEK 1
*(June 11, 2024)*

## Attendees:
- [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)
- [Ayush Kumar Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)
- [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)

### Engagements
* This week i started full engagement with this year project. And the first task on the list to achieve this goal is the creation of a script to fetch copyright content from the fossology server.
* I started by trying to write out SQL codes to fetch this content from the fossology server, and after different tweaking i was able to achieve this goal.
* After a successful writing of the SQL script to fetch the required content from the fossology server, I proceeded to write a python program to embed the PostgreSQL script into the program using the psycog library to achieve the connection to the Postgres database server.
* With this, i was able to automate the collection of copyright content data from the fossology server running in the local host.


## Meeting Discussion:
* I discuss with the mentors about the progress of the week and how the project s going, including if there was any obstacle.
* We discussed about the current progress which is the content fetching script from the fossology localhost server.
* I also gave them a demo to show them how it works and the expected output from the script.


## Subsequent Steps
* I was tasked to write include timestamp with the generated data, so as to track the sequence data update
* I was also told to make some changes for the script to accommodate various sever configuration by placing the server configuration in a `.env` file.
* And I will also continue with the preprocessing script which will allow us to preprocess the data we got from the script fetched from the fossology server.
