---
title: Community bonding
author: Abdulsobur Oyewale
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Abdulsobur Oyewale <oyewaleabdulsobur@gmail.com>
-->
# **Meeting Summary for GSoC Community Bonding Period**

# Introduction Meeting
*(May 29,2025)*

This was the inaugural meeting of the community bonding period for GSoC 2025.
* A general introduction of mentors and contributors took place.
* We were giving an introduction about the FOSSology community.
* Time and platform for the weekly general meeting were discussed.
* We were also engaged on the expectations for the GSoC program.
* The Mentors also emphasized the importance of communication in open source projects.
* At the end there was a Q&A session to address any queries we may have.

# Personal Meeting With The Mentors
*(May 30,2025)*


* They emphasize on the importance of documentation in this project.
* I was encouraged on the practice of regular updates.
* We discussed about the projects and what the targets and expectations are.
* We also discussed about timings for weekly technical calls but didn't make the final decisions since one of the mentors wasn't available with us on the call.
* There was also discussion with my mentor on reviewing last year works.
* We also discussed about adding my documentation to the fossology GSoC page, and submitting a pull request.
* Lastly, I engaged with mentors on how to start my coding period by locally installing Fossology, and trying out different test to understand how it works.


### Engagements

* Explored Fossology local setup installation process
* Treated some crucial pipeline requirements essential for Safaa's automation efforts.


**This report summarizes my activities and interactions during the GSoC community bonding period.**
