---
title: Week 7
author: Abdulsobur Oyewale
tags: [gsoc25, Data Pipeline for Safaa]
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Abdulsobur Oyewale <oyewaleabdulsobur@gmail.com>
-->

# WEEK 7
*(July 16, 2025)*

## Attendees:
- [Ayush Kumar Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)
- [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)

### Engagements
* Last week I got a lot of reviews, comments and corrections on the current scripts I opened a pull request for.
* Therefore what I did mostly this week was making adjustment and adhering to the advice and corrections of the comments i received, while also ensuring code quality.
* Below are the corrections i made;
  - Added individual copyright and license information in all the files created by me.
  - Made the output path from fetched copyright content configurable via argument.
  - Refactored the file name to contain date (DD/MM/YY formats) of the fetched content.
  - Re-adjusted initializations to avoid exception errors.
  - Add the ability for the contents in the server to be fetched in batches.
  - Made fetched content input limit to be configurable through arguments
  - Add some checks to sanitize the availability of DB environmental variable.
  - Removed the calling of the fetch_copyright_data() unconditionally.
  - Introduced a base path for all scripts used in the `pipeline.yml` file
  - Combined the preprocess, declutter, and split scripts into a single utility file


## Meeting Discussion:
* I had the opportunity to show my mentors what I did this week, while also taking them through how i went by solving each issues and comments, while still maintaining code quality

## Subsequent Steps
* I will be proceeding with continuing adjustments on other of the comments received and areas that needs improvement