---
title: Week 1 
author: Aman Dwivedi
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Aman Dwivedi <aman.dwivedi5@gmail.com>
-->

- Created wireframes of different colour scheme
- Had discussions on wireframe
- Finalized the wireframe
- Decided the libraries to be used
- Finalized the architecture of the codebase
- Created a pull request to add the folder structure in the main branch
- Added storage helper functions for cookies and local storage


## Proposed Folder Structure:

```
|-- public
|-- src
      |-- api
      |-- assets
            |-- [+] images
            |-- [+] fonts
      |-- components
            |-- Header
            |-- Footer
            |-- Widgets
                  |-- Buttons
                        |-- [+] tests
                        |-- index.jsx
      |-- constants
            |-- endpoints.js
            |-- externalLinks.js
            |-- routes.js
      |-- pages
            |-- Browse
                  |-- index.jsx
      |-- [+] services
      |-- [+] shared
      |-- [+] styles
      |-- App.js
      |-- Routes.js
      |-- index.jsx
|-- package.json
```
**Note**: `[+]` indicates folder 

* **Api**: Contains the list of all the API functions.
* **Assets**: Holds all the static assets like images and fonts.
* **Components**: Consists of shared elements that can be used by all the pages such as header and footer. Widgets sub folder contains helper components such as Button, Input Container, Image etc.
* **Constants**: Includes all the application wide constants like API endpoints and the list of all the routes.
* **Pages**: Consists of all the pages to be displayed.
* **Services**: Defines all the API services.
* **Shared**: Contains application wide utility functions like auth helpers, storage helpers, date helpers etc. It also carry 3 types of auth guards, public layout, private layout and admin layout.
* **Styles**: This folder contains mainly three files:
    * Theme: It consists of all the variables related to themes such as primary-color, secondary-color, primary-text etc.
    * GlobalStyle.js: It consists of all the css related to theme.
    * global.css: It consists of all the default css such as spacing.
* **App.jsx**: This file is used for application wide state and style managements. It includes theme provider, global styles and imports of all the external CSS libraries.
* **Routes.js**: maps all the url routes to the JSX components
* **index.jsx**: the entry point of the application


## Contributions

- [Wireframes](https://github.com/Aman-Codes/fossology/wiki/Wireframes)

- [feat(structure): add folder structure](https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI/pull/2)

