---
title: Week 4 & 5 
author: Kaushlendra
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Kaushlendra Pratap <kaushlendrapratap.9837@gmail.com>
-->

# Coding Week 4&5 Meeting

### Attendees

* Anupam Ghosh
* Gaurav Mishra
* Vasudev 
* Ayush Bharadwaj
* Shreya Singh
* Kaushlendra Pratap Singh
* Omar AbdelSamea 

### Discussions

* Checking results manually and understanding the edge cases.
* Implementation of the edge cases like (c) --> copyright, Date needed to be mandatory.
* Go through different manually checked copyright CSV provided and The final CSV provided by Michael.
* Traversing the CSV provided by Michael and Implementing the algorithm over it.
* Implementing a performance score with which the algorithms performance to detect the copyrights is been calculated.

### Week 4&5 Progress

* All the results from the different CSVs were traversed and few edge cases were predicted: Org/person name in a different language is impacting, (c) was not been predicted as copyright and it was excluded, [Date] needed to be an important entity for copyright recognition.
* Solution was: (c) --> has been changed to "copyright" string and then it was fed to the algorithm, [Date] check has been implemented inside all the checks which individually helps as a final check before calling it a hit.
* CSV provided by Michael contained 13lakh+ datasets that were not ideal to traverse through all of it once (Jupyter server crashed after continuous 10 hours running).
* Divided the datasets into chunks of 10,000 and will traverse through it and check the ideal results on all over it.
* Performance score was calculated \{hitscore/No.of copyrights in list\}*100, which came out as **82.65%**
* Wiki has been Updated


### Conclusion and Further Plans

Understanding the edge cases and calculating the accuracy score over True Positives.
