---
title: Week 5
author: Kaushlendra
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Kaushlendra Pratap <kaushlendrapratap.9837@gmail.com>
-->

# Coding Week 5 Meeting

### Attendees

* Anupam Ghosh
* Gaurav Mishra
* Vasudev 
* Ayush Bharadwaj
* Shreya Singh
* Kaushlendra Pratap Singh
* Omar AbdelSamea 

### Discussions

* Checking results manually and understanding the edge cases.
* Implementation of the edge cases like Differentiating between ['Date'] and ['Cardinal].
* Figuring out the solutions for the DATE and CARDINAL anomaly.
* Go through different manually checked copyright CSV provided and The final CSV provided by Michael.
* Generating the Accuracy score for true positives.
* Thoughts for implementing our own NER model and creating an entity-based table according to our copyrights.

### Week 3&4 Progress

* [Date] needed to be an important entity for copyright recognition. Various solutions have been implemented to get more and more accurate about it.
* Solution was: ['Cardinal'] --> was included into the NER list and then a python date format check has been implemented which will check whether the date is present in the NER["Entity"] list. (This is reducing the accuracy that means it is not working)
* I am working on another solution using regex which will help in removing one more kind of edge case.
* Divided the datasets into chunks of 10,000 and will traverse through it and check the ideal results on all over it.
* Accuracy Score for True Positives was calculated: **87.6%** which will further increase after removing few more edge cases.
* The dataset also contains human errors and it is impacting our accuracy score for TP as well.
* Wiki has been Updated


### Conclusion and Further Plans

Understanding the edge cases and calculating the accuracy score over True Positives.