---
title: Week 8
author: Kaushlendra
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Kaushlendra Pratap <kaushlendrapratap.9837@gmail.com>
-->

# Coding Week 8 Meeting

### Attendees

* Gaurav Mishra
* Vasudev 
* Ayush Bharadwaj
* Shreya Singh
* Kaushlendra Pratap Singh
* Omar AbdelSamea 

### Discussions

* Provided with more edge cases to retaliate.
* Discussion whether a good model will result in good extraction and results.
* Discussion over calculating the PRECISION of the algorithm using the predefined accuracies.
* Different models for NER was discussed, like "en_core_web_md", "en_core_web_lg" & "en_core_web_trf"
* Discussions over the process of clutter removal from the copyrights. E.g.
    
    Original Copyright: `Copyright (c) 2018 Kaushlendra Pratap. Distributed under the MIT license.........` 
    
    After Clutter Removal: `Copyright (c) 2018 Kaushlendra Pratap.`

* A REGEX based approach was discussed to extract the exact copyright statements out and decided to keep it as a last resort.
* An approach using the heuristic approach was taken as two pointers to go from one NER extracted entity till the exact thing is acquired.
* After long discussions over approaches and the edge cases that should be encountered, the final approach included the STRING MANIPULATION.
* The edge cases decided was:

    1. ['ORG'] encountered
    2. ['PERSON'] encountered
    3. ['ORG] and ['PERSON'] both were encountered
    4. Hard code string value if "All rights reserved" or "Distributed under the licenses" was present
    5. Finally the regex approach for the left out cases.

* The time complexity of the algorithm was under the close watch

### Week 8 Progress

* The edge cases provided were screened through the algorithm and results were improved.
* Several models were tried including all the en_core_web(md, lg and trf).
* The accuracy was not impacted as such using the heavy models.
* The most accuracy was given by "en_core_web_trf", i.e. 89.06 from 89.02 which is a minor change but on the other, the implementation time for 100 thousand copyright statements was 1.2 hours. 
* Performance over accuracy was chosen. (Stayed with "en_core_web_sm")
* The accuracy of 100 thousand copyrights were stretched to 90 - 91% approx.
* Final accuracy variable was created with the formula of PRECISION: `TP+TN/FP+TP+TN+FN`
* The PRECISION was calculated to be: **94.07%** (for 100 thousand copyright statements)
* The clutter removal flag was created and developed in such a way that,
    
    
        > USER: Provides FLAG => 1

            > IF COPYRIGHT is True:

                > IF FLAG is True:

                    > CALL FUNC() -> Remove clutter

* TWO edge cases of clutter removal were covered, i.e. the hardcoded string-based and ['ORG'] was present.
* Wiki has been Updated

### Conclusion and Further Plans

Different level of clutter removal should be implemented.