---
title: Week 9
author: Kaushlendra
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Kaushlendra Pratap <kaushlendrapratap.9837@gmail.com>
-->

# Coding Week 9 Meeting

### Attendees

* Gaurav Mishra
* Vasudev 
* Ayush Bharadwaj
* Shreya Singh
* Kaushlendra Pratap Singh
* Omar AbdelSamea 

### Discussions

* Clutter Removal Preview was given and discussed.
* Implementation of the trained NER model was discussed using a CUSTOM training data set.
* Next target for Final evaluations were discussed:

    1. Training the model using a custom dataset.
    2. Integrating the ALgorithm with FOSSOLOGY.
    3. Documenting everything and revamping it according to the integration.

* CUSTOM [ORG] list extraction process was discussed.

### Week 9 Progress

* Clutter removal for the other three cases was implemented.
* A custom training dataset was created using a list of names of organisations.
* Spacy "en_core_web_sm" was trained on that custom dataset used.
* Training was done in a way:

    1- This training was more of an instantaneous one i.e. You train it for google, It will work only for google.

    2- Need to figure out the way to keep the trained model while pushing the code. "nlp.to_disk()" internal property was used for saving the trained model to the local system.  

* More reduction and updation to code was done by removing redundancy and making the code more function-oriented.
* Wiki has been Updated

### Conclusion and Further Plans

Integration of the algorithm with the FOSSOLOGY