---
title: Community bonding
author: Rajul Jha
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Rajul Jha <rajuljha49gmail.com>
-->

### Meeting 1

*(May 7, 2024)*

### Discussion:
- Could not attend due to family emergency.


# Community Bonding Week 1

*(May 9, 2024 - May 15, 2024)*

### Meeting 2

*(May 9, 2024)*

### Discussion:
- I gave my introduction in the meeting.
- Got to know my mentors and colleagues.

### Work Done:
- Tried to setup the coding environment.
- Set up a Virtual Machine because fossology does not work on Mac.:pensive:
- Faced challenges installing some python packages which were not available for aarch64 architecture.
Worked around the issue by commenting [this out](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/blob/6e6b00c2ded6a1db7647d0da9e97c78ed9ffddf8/install/fo-postinstall.in#L261-L263).

# Community Bonding Week 2

*(May 16, 2024 - May 23, 2024)*

### Meeting 3

*(May 16, 2024)*

### Discussion:
- Contributors shared their weekly updates.
- Discussed and decided time for weekly project specific meetings.
- Mentors talked about the importance of open communication in open source.

### Work Done:
- Played around with fossology and scanned a few repositories.
- Tried to understand how scanners work internally.
- Talked with other contributors about the project.

# Community Bonding Week 3

*(May 23, 2024 - May 30, 2024)*

### Meeting 4

*(May 23, 2024)*

### Discussion:
- Had final discussions on projects.
- Finalized any changes to the project milestones.

### Work Done:
- Tried building the fossology scanner image locally.
- Played around a while with the image, trying to understand what it does.
- Faced an issue of UI freezing in the VM. Solved it by using [SSH Remote Tunneling](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/ssh)
- Started to theorize how the line number algorithm would work.


### Meeting 5
*(May 30, 2024)*
- Discussed the project updates from the mentors and contributors.
- Got clear understanding of how to document our progress during the whole program.
- Had discussions with the mentors about how to approach the algorithm for line numbers.

***This summarizes my community bonding period at Fossology***