---
title: Week 4
author: Avinal Kumar
author_url: https://github.com/avinal
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/74113200?v=4
tags: [gsoc21, buildsystem, ci/cd, cmake]
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Avinal Kumar <avinal.xlvii@gmail.com>
-->

## Meeting 7
*(June 29th, 2021)*

In this seventh meeting question related to installing the FOSSology were discussed.

<!--truncate-->

### Attendees

-   [Michael C. Jaeger](https://github.com/mcjaeger)
-   [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)
-   [Sarita Singh](https://github.com/itssingh)
-   [Avinal Kumar](https://github.com/avinal)

### Week 4 Progress

<ul><li>CMake configuration files have been refactored to make each agent as a separate sub-project.</li>
<li>VERSION files can be generated now during configure step</li>
<li>Version parsing logic implemented.</li>
<li>VERSION and COMMIT_HASH added to every executables.</li>
<li>Installing part is complete except <code>cli</code>.</li>
<li>Symbolic Links are installing and working fine.</li>
<li>Version, Symbolic Links, <code>VERSION</code> file generation, <code>version.php</code> generation are now more modular and called via a single function for each agent</li>
<li>Most dependencies are now moved to single configuration file.</li>
<li>Vendor directory generation and installing are now working.</li>
<li>To test the current progress, follow the instructions <a href="https://github.com/avinal/FOSSology/wiki#test-the-new-system-only-gcc-with-make-and-ninja-tested-for-now">here</a></li>
</ul>


### Discussions

-   **There are two types of replacements CMake can configure file with.** `@VARIABLE@` **and** `${VARIABLE}`
    **. Since in PHP** `$variable` **is used, it may create problem for CMake replacements. So may I replace them?**
    -   Yeah sure, go ahead. It will be more robust.
    -   The replacement of `$VARIABLE` can be stopped by using `@ONLY` option in `configure_file(...)` command.
-   **How to generate vendor directory?**
    -   The code for generating vendor directory is in `src/Makefile`.
    -   Before executing code for the generation, make sure to copy `composer.json` and `composer.lock` to the target directory.
    -   There is also a patch that FOSSology needs to function as intended. Make sure to run that patch to check and apply.
    -   For now, we generate *vendor* while building, but it would be nice if it can be generated in the build step.
-   **Currently I am generating the VERSION file in configure step itself. Should I move it to the build or install step?**
    -   Yeah, please move it to the build step. As in configure step the data might be outdated.
-   **Is there any configuration for Release that we can use to install or test?** *(Michael)*
    -   Yeah, there are 4 inbuilt configurations for various levels of optimization and can be applied to tests and installation.
-   **Is the VERSION file is generated for each agent or whole project at once? Because in the latter case, the VERSION file can be generated as the last step.** *(Sarita)*
    -   No agent has a VERSION file along with the main VERSION file for FOSSology.
-   **How I can build and install a single agent or component?** *(Sarita)*
    -   There are two ways you can build and install a specific agent or component only.
    -   The first one is quite simple. Just change your directory to the specific agent\'s directory and run all the usual commands for building and installing.
    -   The second one is a bit for typing work. This can be used directly from the top-level directory. After configuring the CMake, you can run the following command to install the specific component.

        ```bash
        # for Unix Makefiles
        make list_install_component # this will list all the available components
        cmake -DCOMPONENT=<component-name> -P cmake_install.cmake
        ```
    -   I am writing a macro that will let us install a component by simply running `make install component`.

### Conclusion and Further Plans

-   Implement generation of vendor directory.
-   Move VERSION file generation to build step.

## Meeting 8
*(July 2nd, 2021)*

In this eighth meeting questions related to post install generation were asked. This was a short meeting.

### Attendees

-   [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)
-   [Sarita Singh](https://github.com/itssingh)
-   [Avinal Kumar](https://github.com/avinal)


### Discussions

-   **Why all the symbolic links in cli points to** `fo_wrapper` **script?**
    -   The `fo_wrapper` script calls the PHP script on the symbolic link that called the fo\_wrapper. It also initializes any requirement before calling the scripts.
-   **How to generate all the other configuration in** `/usr/local/etc/fossology` **directory?**
    -   You can find the input files for all these configurations in the `install/defcon` directory.
-   **What are** `OBSOLETEFILES` **in** `www/ui/Makefile` **?**
    -   They are kept for compatibility purposes. Although they have been removed in the current versions of FOSSology, if a user installs a new version on top of an older instance, then we should explicitly remove those files.
-   **I have created a separate folder for generating vendor directory. Is that okay?**
    -   Yeah, it should be fine, But it would be better to rename it to something else. Or even better if moved to *www* itself. Since these files are used by www.

### Conclusion and Further Plans

-   Move `vendor` scripts to `www` directory.
-   Implement installing for FOSSology cli.
-   Implement installing configuration scripts.
-   Finish installation for testing

