---
title: Week 16
author: Abdelrahman Jamal
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Abdelrahman Jamal <abdelrahmanjamal5565@gmail.com>
-->

*(September,13,2023)*

## Attendees:

* [Abdelrahman](https://github.com/Hero2323)
* [Ayush](https://github.com/hastagAB)
* [Gaurav](https://github.com/GMishx)
* [Kaushlendra](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)


## Updates:

### 1. Dataset Cleanup:
   - Initiated code to clean the conll2003 dataset as mentioned in week 14:
     * Merged `PER` and `ORG` entities.
     * Discarded `LOC` and `MISC` entities since they are not pertinent to my requirements.

### 2. Fine-tuning and Testing:
   - Conducted another round of fine-tuning using 750 examples from my dataset and assessed the NER model's performance within my preprocessing function.
     * Noticed a slight dip in performance due to obfuscation of repetitive copyright holder names in the dataset.
   - Labeled an additional 750 examples, totaling slightly over 1500, and fine-tuned the primary model with this data.
     * The model, while proficient, occasionally mislabeled non-copyright sentences as `ENT` (the copyright holder entity), potentially increasing false positives.
     * Below are some detection results using the dataset from the feature extraction paper to test on unseen examples (detected entities are highlighted):
       1. Copyright (C) 2017 `DENX Software Engineering`
       2. Copyright (C) `IBM Corporation` 2016
       3. Copyright (c) 2000-2005 `Vojtech Pavlik` <vojtech@suse.cz>
       4. Copyright (c) 2009, `Microsoft Corporation`.
       5. Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson 2010 - 2013 (Entity missed)
       6. Copyright (c) 2012 `Steffen Trumtrar` <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>, `Pengutronix`
       7. Copyright 2008 `GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems`, Inc.
     * The model detected the majority of entities, missing less than 5%.
     * Adopted semi-supervised training by using the preceding model to label the entire dataset and trained on it. This refined model, now in use, missed under 1% of the copyright holder entities in the same test set.

## Conclusion and Future Plans:

### 1. Fossology Integration:
   - Aim to integrate the false positive copyright detection code into Fossology.

### 2. Decluttering Process:
   - Initiate the decluttering procedure, which will bear similarities to the copyright holder entity detection process.

