---
title: Week 12
author: Abdelrahman Jamal
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Abdelrahman Jamal <abdelrahmanjamal5565@gmail.com>
-->

*(August,16,2023)*

## Attendees:

* [Abdelrahman](https://github.com/Hero2323)
* [Ayush](https://github.com/hastagAB)
* [Gaurav](https://github.com/GMishx)
* [Kaushlendra](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)


## Updates:

### 1. Embedding Methods Testing:
   - Started the week by testing the performance of different embedding methods in conjunction with my new preprocessing function.
   - Using GloVe, achieved an accuracy with around 1.24% misclassified copyrights and 1.95% misclassified false positives. 
   - Despite variations in preprocessing parameters, GloVe's performance lagged considerably behind the best model I've developed using TF-IDF — almost a tenfold difference.

### 2. GloVe Embedding Analysis:
   - Conducted an analysis to determine the proportion of words in the datasets recognized by GloVe:
     * `Embeddings found for 60.68% of vocab`
     * `Embeddings found for 91.12% of all text`
   - Given that copyrights predominantly contain elements like names, dates, and organizations, the subpar performance of GloVe — not specifically trained on this data — in comparison to TF-IDF became clearer.

### 3. FastText Experiments:
   - Experimental trials with FastText embeddings did not lead to significant performance improvements, even with different preprocessing.

### 4. Performance Benchmarks:
   - Current best performance indicates 0.16% misclassifications for copyrights and 0.48% for false positive misclassifications.
   - These numbers can be reduced further to 0.04% and 3.17%, respectively, by applying a stricter confidence threshold of 0.99.

### 5. Exploratory Testing of NER Models:
   - Initiated testing of Named Entity Recognition (NER) models to potentially replace the copyright holder entity. 
   - Due to recurring mentions of numerous copyright holders across different files and dataset rows, there's a concern about the model's generalization capability. The idea is to use NER to replace these mentions with generic tags for persons and organizations.

### 6. Trials with Compact spaCy Model:
   - Conducted initial tests with the compact spaCy English model due to space limitations.
   - Preliminary results were not very promising:
     * `] ] copyrightsymbol ] date [siemens (ORG) ag`
     * `] ] copyrightsymbol ] date [siemens (ORG) ag ] author [gaurav (PERSON) mishra ] email`
     * `] copyright ] copyrightsymbol ] date ] date [free (ORG) software foundation inc franklin street [fifth (ORDINAL) ] floor [boston (ORG) ma date date ] usa`
   - The model could recognize some entities, but significant refinement is needed to improve its reliability in detecting PERSON and ORG entities.

## Conclusion and Future Plans:

### NER Model Exploration
  - Plan to explore other pretrained NER models that might be suitable for the task at hand.

