---
title: Week 17
author: Abdelrahman Jamal
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Abdelrahman Jamal <abdelrahmanjamal5565@gmail.com>
-->

*(September,20,2023)*

## Attendees:

* [Abdelrahman](https://github.com/Hero2323)
* [Kaushlendra](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)


## Updates:

### 1. PyPi Package Development:
   - Initiated the creation of a PyPi package to encapsulate the false positive detection model, geared towards integration with Fossology.

### 2. Package Naming:
   - The package has been tentatively named `copyrightfpd`, which stands for Copyright False Positive Detection.

### 3. Model Inclusion Challenges:
   - Faced difficulties incorporating the models into the package. Leveraged resources on Stack Overflow and Google to overcome these challenges and successfully crafted the package.

### 4. Package Availability:
   - The package is now available [here](https://pypi.org/project/copyrightfpd/).

### 5. Training and Testing Scripts:
   - Began developing training and testing scripts for prospective use by Fossology. This is a work in progress.

### 6. Fossology Integration:
   - Started the process to embed the model within Fossology. While the package was successfully added to Fossology's Python dependencies, activation of the false positive detection features posed challenges. Collaborative debugging efforts with Kaushlendra during our weekly meeting did not completely resolve the issue.

## Conclusion and Future Plans:

### 1. `copyrightfpd` Integration:
   - Intend to continue refining the integration of the `copyrightfpd` package into Fossology.

### 2. Script Finalization:
   - Aim to finalize the training and testing scripts.

### 3. Copyright Decluttering:
   - Upon successful integration of the false positive detection into Fossology, the next goal is to focus on decluttering copyrights.

