---
title: Week 14
author: Abdelrahman Jamal
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Abdelrahman Jamal <abdelrahmanjamal5565@gmail.com>
-->

*(August,30,2023)*

## Attendees:

* [Abdelrahman](https://github.com/Hero2323)
* [Ayush](https://github.com/hastagAB)
* [Gaurav](https://github.com/GMishx)
* [Kaushlendra](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)


## Updates:

### 1. Revisiting SpaCy NER:
   - Opted to retest the SpaCy NER for several reasons:
     * Earlier attempts lacked proper visualization, making it hard to assess performance on my dataset.
     * Training a SpaCy model is simplified with well-documented commands:
       - **Dataset Labeling**: This is a time-intensive step. I utilized visual annotation tools like `doccano`.
       - **Data Transformation**: Converting datasets into a SpaCy-compatible format is straightforward.
     * Encountered difficulties while coding for the tiny BERT model training.

### 2. Insights on SpaCy's NER Model:
   - SpaCy's NER model is trained on the [OntoNotes 5](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2013T19) dataset. This dataset, released in late 2013, features 18 entities in contrast to the four in the conll2003 dataset.

### 3. SpaCy vs. Tiny BERT:
   - For a fair comparison, I trained the SpaCy model from scratch on the conll2003 dataset:
     * Tiny BERT achieved an F1 score of 0.8177, while SpaCy reached 0.8182 — nearly identical performance.
     * NER entity visualization in SpaCy is straightforward via the `displacy` module.
     * Chose SpaCy due to its ease of use, training, visualization, and a smaller model size compared to tiny BERT.

### 4. Refining Entity Recognition:
   - Realized that distinguishing between PER and ORG entities was non-essential. My primary goal is identifying copyright holder entities. Decided to merge them for future training.

### 5. Labeling and Fine-tuning:
   - Labeled 750 examples from my dataset using `doccano`.
   - Fine-tuned the SpaCy model trained on conll2003 with this data.

### 6. Process Optimization:
   - Continually working to enhance the process. Will present NER labeled sentences in the coming update.

## Conclusion and Future Plans:

### 1. Enhancing the NER Labeling and Training:
   * Merge the PER and ORG entities from the conll2003 dataset during training and ignore the other entities as they're not relevant to my goals.
   * Increase the labeled samples from the copyrights dataset to generate a more extensive dataset for training and refinement.
