---
title: Community bonding
author: Muhammad Salman
author_url: https://github.com/SalmanDeveloperz
tags: [gsoc25, microservices, infrastructure, devops]

---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyright Text: 2025 Muhammad Salman <chsalmanramzan422@gmail.com>
-->

# Community Bonding

## Community Meeting 1

*(May 12,2025)*

This was the first official meeting marking the start of the community bonding period for GSoC '25. It served as a foundational step to bring contributors and mentors together. During this meeting, mentors and contributors introduced themselves, shared insights about FOSSology, discussed their previous experiences in open source, and set expectations for the GSoC program. We also established effective communication method, Slack, and conducted a Q&A session to address any immediate questions or concerns. 


## Week 1 & 2 ##

*(19 May to 29 May 2025)*

During these two weeks, I had my university final exams. Prior to this, I communicated my academic commitments with my mentors, who were very supportive and showed great understanding. Their encouragement allowed me to fully focus on my exams without any stress related to GSoC responsibilities. I appreciated their positive attitude, which reflected the inclusive and supportive culture of the FOSSology community. I maintained light communication with the mentors to stay updated on ongoing discussions, continued work on a previously raised PR and attended meetings alongside my exams.


## 1-on-1 meeting with [@Soham](https://github.com/soham4abc) ##

*(21 May, 2025)*

During the community bonding period, I had a huddle with [@Soham](https://github.com/soham4abc) on Slack. The discussion was really friendly and informative. We shared our experiences and journeys. He answered my questions kindly, motivated me, helped me with codebase setup queries and introduced me to the community and FOSSology team. He encouraged me to reach out anytime I face challenges.

## 1-on-1 meeting with [@Avinal](https://github.com/avinal) ##

*(27 May, 2025)*

I had a Google Meet session with my mentor [@Avinal](https://github.com/avinal). We talked about my studies, experience, skill set and planning ahead. We also decided on a communication plan. He shared his experience in open source, FOSSology, and professional life. I felt very comfortable speaking with him. He resolved my queries, guided me on getting started and helped finalize the codebase setup. His support and encouragement were truly appreciated.This session helped establish a strong mentor-mentee relationship. 

## Community Meeting 2 ##

*(May 29, 2025)*

That was the first general meeting after the introductory one. Mentors and contributors discussed suitable meeting time slots and agreed to hold weekly meetings based on majority votes. The importance of communication, community bonding and regular updates was highlighted. Contributors were encouraged to ask questions freely. Project-specific issues were created on GitHub, though we were not required to start working before the coding period but allow to start earlier if someone interested early contributions. We also received guidance on writing documentation, reports and completing any pending or previously opened PRs/ issues.

## Activities and Work Done ##

* During Community Bonding period, I worked on previously raised PR, fixed requested changes and prepared it for merging: [fix: prevent nomos CLI from connecting to DB when not required (#1299)](https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2947)

* I engaged with mentors [@Avinal](https://github.com/avinal) and [@Soham](https://github.com/soham4abc), and started discussions with fellow contributor [@Vaibhav](https://github.com/Vaibhavsahu2810). We had a call to discuss our projects, communication approach and ways to support each other. We also talked about codebase setup and resolved questions among ourselves. It was a great collaborative experience.

* By May 31, I successfully set up the FOSSology codebase on my laptop and informed my mentor about the progress and plan for the coding period. I am very excited to dive into the coding phase and give it my best!
